#summary OpenID Java Library
#labels Featured

= What is this package? =

This library allows you to OpenID-enable your Java webapp.

The library currently supports the following OpenID specifications:
  * [http://openid.net/specs/openid-authentication-2_0-11.html OpenID Authentication 2.0, draft 11]
  * [http://openid.net/specs/openid-attribute-exchange-1_0-04.html OpenID Attribute Exchange 1.0, draft 4]

= What is OpenID? =

OpenID starts with the concept that anyone can identify themselves on the 
Internet the same way websites do - with a URI. Since URIs are at the very 
core of Web architecture, they provide a solid foundation for user-centric 
identity.

The first piece of the OpenID framework is authentication -- how you prove 
ownership of a URI. Today, websites require usernames and passwords to 
login, which means that many people use the same password everywhere. With 
OpenID Authentication, your username is your URI, and your password (or 
other credentials) stays safely stored on your OpenID Provider (which you 
can run yourself, or use a third-party identity provider).

For more information about the OpenID protocol please refer to the
specification at: http://openid.net/specs.bml

= Quick Start =

To OpenID-enable a website - a Relying Party (RP) in OpenID terms, or Consumer at code-level, you need to do the following:

  * [Installation Install] the libraries

  * Instead (or as an alternative to) prompting the user for their username/password, obtain their OpenID (URL) identifier 

  * Create an authentication request for this identifier, and redirect the user to their OpenID Provider (with this request)

  * Receive the OpenID Provider's authentication response at your webapp's ReturnURL, and verify it

Have a look at the QuickStart page for a code-level overview of the above, and at the SampleConsumer class for the full code.

= Download =

If you want a ready-built package, the latest version can be found on the OpenID4Java library distribution project page at: http://code.sxip.com

You can also [http://code.google.com/p/openid4java/source check out the code] and [BuildFromSource build the package from source].

= See also ==

[Requirements]

[Installation]

[Documentation]

Sample useage / code: SampleConsumer SampleServer





