#summary OpenID 2.0 Java 开发包
=这个开发包是什么？=

这个开发包可以让你在你的 Java web 应用程序中启用 OpenID 支持。

目前本开发包支持下面的规范：

    * [!OpenID Authentication 2.0, draft 11 http://openid.net/specs/openid-authentication-2_0-11.html]
    * [!OpenID Attribute Exchange 1.0, draft 4 http://openid.net/specs/openid-attribute-exchange-1_0-04.html]

=OpenID 是什么？=

OpenID starts with the concept that anyone can identify themselves on the Internet the same way websites do - with a URI. Since URIs are at the very core of Web architecture, they provide a solid foundation for user-centric identity.

The first piece of the OpenID framework is authentication -- how you prove ownership of a URI. Today, websites require usernames and passwords to login, which means that many people use the same password everywhere. With OpenID Authentication, your username is your URI, and your password (or other credentials) stays safely stored on your OpenID Provider (which you can run yourself, or use a third-party identity provider).

For more information about the OpenID protocol please refer to the specification at: http://openid.net/specs.bml
=Quick Start=

To OpenID-enable a website - a Relying Party (RP) in OpenID terms, or Consumer at code-level, you need to do the following:

    * Install the libraries 

    * Instead (or as an alternative to) prompting the user for their username/password, obtain their OpenID (URL) identifier 

    * Create an authentication request for this identifier, and redirect the user to their OpenID Provider (with this request) 

    * Receive the OpenID Provider's authentication response at your webapp's ReturnURL, and verify it 

Have a look at the QuickStart page for a code-level walk-through the above, and at the SampleConsumer class for the full code.

The bulk of the action amounts to about a dozen lines of code.
=Download=

If you want a ready-built package, the latest version can be found on the OpenID4Java library distribution project page at: http://code.sxip.com

You can also check out the code and build the package from source.
=See also=

[Requirements]

[Installation]

[Documentation]

Sample useage / code: [SampleConsumer] [SampleServer]




